# Backend Conceptual Warmup

## Instructions

* Fork and clone this repository
* Place your answers inside of this file (you can keep these answers to a sentence or two)
* Submit a pull request to submit the assignment

## Questions

1.  What is Jinja2 used for? inserting and evaluating python code within html that will be processed by te server
2.  What is a migration? What is the purpose of a migration? migration is the version control-like process of creating a timeline of your various schema/ddl changes within an orm. it is great for managing a collaborative team that works on one db together.
3.  What is a model? it is a representation of a sql table within an orm for the server to process in its own language.
4.  What is a route or endpoint? it is the defined web url locatation users make request for to get a certain defined response that corresponds with the route name in the server.
5.  What is the difference between GET and POST? get is asking for data from the server post is asking the server to take data
6.  How would you explain what RESTful routing is? it is the naming and functional convention for defining routes on a server that is used by a large portion of the industry
7.  What is SQL? a relational database
8.  What is a relational database? a database who's main function is to store data in defined containers (tables) and allow for the connection (via storing ids in sql) of the containers to occur.
9.  How would you explain what a redirect is? it is a way one instantly sending another req res cycle after one has already occured, usually to render a page
10. What is the difference between `redirect` and `render_template`? When would you use one or the other? one main difference is that redirects are used to call view functions while render_templates calls an html page instantly. I would use redirect in nearly all post/patch request cases

* What does the following code do?

```py
student = Student('Joel', 'Burton')
db.session.add(student)
db.session.commit(student)
```

this creates a student instance that is then added to a database assuming that the database is represented by the variable db and is using sql_alchemy

* What does the following code do?

```py
@app.route('/students', methods=["GET", "POST"])
def index():
   if request.method == "POST":
       student = Student('Joel', 'Burton')
       db.session.add(student)
       db.session.commit(student)
       return redirect(url_for("index"))
   return render_template("index.html", students=Student.query.all())
```

this listens for the get or post resquest on the url route /students and either instantiates a class of joel the student to the database on a post req or returns the index.html template with a get req

* What does the following code do?

```sh
flask db init
```

initaties your databse to begin using migrations with your orm in flask_migrate

* What does the following code do?

```sh
flask db migrate -m "adding favorite_color column to students table"
```

adds an autogenerated file of all the ddl changes flask_migrate thinks you to make on the dock to be changed with a flask db upgrade terminal call. you can only migrate oncd before upgrading lest casuing migration timeline issue that flask_migrate blocks you in causing.

* What does the following code do?

```sh
flask db upgrade
```

commits your migrate changes to the database that was originally inited

* Given the resource `students` - write out all 7 RESTful routes (include the HTTP verb and endpoint)

\students
get index
post create
\students\new
get new
\students\<id>
get show
patch update
delete destory
\students\<id>\edit
edit edit

* Imagine we want to add another resource for `excuses` which is a 1 to Many with `students` - write out all 7 RESTful routes that nest excuses inside of students (include the HTTP verb and endpoint)
  \students\<student_id>\excuses
  get index
  post create
  \students\<student_id>\excuses\new
  get new
  \students\<student_id>\excuses\<excuse_id>
  get show
  patch update
  delete destory
  \students\<student_id>excuses\<excuse_id>\edit
  edit edit
